Blazehorn
“I’m sure some alchemist’s to blame for this.”
Flame Throwers. Blazehorns are hulking, hoofed
mammals whose bodies produce a substance like alche-
mist’s fire. A blazehorn can launch this volatile material
from a hump on its back. With an unending supply of
fire, blazehorns love spreading destruction. Their young
thrive in burned areas, feeding on scorched plant material,
burnt resinous trees, and ash.
Destruction Untamed. Numerous alchemists have
sought to tame blazehorns to simplify the creation of
their volatile elixirs. Every attempt has ended in failure.
The fiery nature of a blazehorn has proven impossible to
curb for long.
saLvage
From one dead blazehorn, someone who succeeds at
a DC 13 Intelligence (Arcana or Nature) or Wisdom
(Animal Handling or Medicine) check can harvest
enough tar to create three flasks of alchemist’s fire.
However, if the check to harvest the material fails by
5 or more, treat it as if the blazehorn’s Firebomb action
went off at a point on the edge of the blazehorn’s space
closest the harvester. This event destroys all the tar that
could have been harvested from that blazehorn.
LOre
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature): Blazehorns are hulking
ruminants that produce a tar like alchemist’s fire. They
prefer scorched plants and ash for food.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana): A blazehorn is immune
to fire damage.
DC 20 Intelligence (Nature): When wounded, a
blazehorn can emit a retaliatory firebomb.
bLazehOrn
Large monstrosity, unaligned
Armor Class 13 (natural armor)
Hit Points 45 (6d10 + 12)
Speed 40 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
18 (+4) 10 (+0) 15 (+2) 2 (–4) 12 (+1) 5 (–3)
Damage Immunities fire
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages —
Challenge 3 (700 XP) Proficiency Bonus +2
Charge. If the blazehorn moves at least 20 feet straight
toward a target and then hits it with a ram attack on the
same turn, the target takes an extra 7 (2d6) bludgeoning
damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a
DC 15 Strength saving throw or fall prone.
aCtiOns
Ram. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target. Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage.
Firebomb (Recharge 5–6). The blazehorn launches a
ball of flaming tar at a point it can see within 60 feet of it.
Each creature within 5 feet of that point must make a DC
12 Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, the target takes
7 (3d4) fire damage and ignites. If the save is successful,
the target takes half as much fire damage and doesn’t
catch fire. An ignited creature takes 2 (1d4) fire damage
at the start of each of its turns. A creature can use its
action to repeat the save, extinguishing the flames on a
success. Flammable objects in the area also catch fire.
reaCtiOns
Defensive Launch. When the blazehorn drops to
fewer than half its hit points, it recharges Firebomb and
uses it immediately. It targets the source of the damage
that triggered this reaction if possible.